# Animal Shelter Webapp
Charles Haines - CS-340 SNHU
12/16/2022

### Information

The key to writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is being able to take an idea for a project and break it down into smaller components. Each component should have a distinct function or purpose which adds structure to your project. The animal shelter relies on reading data from a MongoDB database and all of the code related to database operations are contained within the animal_shelter.py CRUD module. If there is a problem or a change is required that has anything to do with database interactions, I would not have to think much about where code responsible for database operations is since I know it is all contained within the CRUD module. An additional benefit to creating modular code is re-usability. As an example, the CRUD module I created for this project could easily be used in another project that isn't related to the animal shelter application. I have already used a slightly modified version of the CRUD module I created for this project in another project where I am analyzing data and creating graphs using a dataset on the first generation of Pokemon video games. I thought this would be a fun way to visualize the data versus reading it in a table.

I approach problems related to computer science by identifying a problem and designing a plan for solving it. The Animal Shelter web application was broken down into several pieces from the back end database operations, to the front end look and feel of the web application. In smaller projects I have worked on in the past this approach was not necessary, but any project that has the potential to grow should be designed in a modular fashion in a way that makes sense for that project.

Computer scientists are people who research and study topics related to computers and technology. Computer scientists maintain an important role in a society where many people and organizations rely on computers and related technologies for every day tasks and to conduct business. Just as Grazioso Salvare sought a software engineer to design the animal shelter web application, computer scientists are helping push technology forward and allowing people to find new ways to approach solving problems using technology.
